---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - Career Fair & Resume
date: 2025-03-05 14:28:26
description: Project work will be resumed next week
tags: seniorProject portfolio resume
categories: sample-posts
featured: false
---

### Career Fair

There was a huge career fair this week, and while I am still feeling pretty under the weather, I felt that it would have been a huge waste not to go and talk to some potential employers about internship opportunities. Writing about this from a week later, I unfortunately missed some basic (but small) errors on my resume, but I had some printed, and got to hand out about 5 at the event. On top of that, I was better able to see what languages, skills, and directions that some of these companies were looking for. For all the applications and potential, I only got two interviews out of it. The biggest drawback of my resume is lacking work experience, and I need work experience to land a job... This is such a fun game. Anyways I want to take a minute and mention some of the biggest things that helped improve my resume.

The absolute best thing was letting other people look at my resume. They are able to spot small mistakes and errors, but they also can give great advice for better ways of wording things, more presentable formats, and ideas for future improvements. I showed my resume to many friends and faculty, and they gave me good feedback every time. Rarely did I leave from one of these informal meetings with, "wow, your resume is so good it can't get any better." The harder people dig at your resume, the better you can make it. 

Another method of improving your resume, especially when you are a college student, is to limit information provided to specifically the job you are applying for. In other words, don't list every single job, experience, and event you have every attended on your resume. Try and really think about what the recruiter or manager would want in an applicant, and try to highlight only those things. Even if the resume ends up being slightly less than a page, it helps the recruiter know exactly what you are good at rather than every single thing you kind of know how to do.

Finally, don't use colors needlessly. You can change font colors to match the company's logo if it makes sense, but absolutely do not use more than two colors, and if you are going to do that, make one the header color where your name is, and the other for the whole rest of the document. There is an element of design and style when building a resume, but not anything extravagant. 
